---
layout: post
title: Meet the Authors 1 - Stefano Massaroli
subtitle: Dissecting Neural ODEs &  Hypersolvers Toward Fast Continuous-Depth Models
categories: discussion
date: 2020-12-06T13:30:00JST
duration: 30
tags: [discussion, day1]
---

#### Stefano Massaroli, Michael Poli, Jinkyoo Park, Atsushi Yamashita, Hajime Asama [Dissecting Neural ODEs](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2020/hash/293835c2cc75b585649498ee74b395f5-Abstract.html)

Continuous deep learning architectures have recently re-emerged as Neural Ordinary Differential Equations (Neural ODEs). This infinite-depth approach theoretically bridges the gap between deep learning and dynamical systems, offering a novel perspective. However, deciphering the inner working of these models is still an open challenge, as most applications apply them as generic black-box modules. In this work we open the box'', further developing the continuous-depth formulation with the aim of clarifying the influence of several design choices on the underlying dynamics.

#### Michael Poli, Stefano Massaroli, Atsushi Yamashita, Hajime Asama, Jinkyoo Park [Hypersolvers: Toward Fast Continuous-Depth Models](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2020/hash/f1686b4badcf28d33ed632036c7ab0b8-Abstract.html)

The infinite-depth paradigm pioneered by Neural ODEs has launched a renaissance in the search for novel dynamical system-inspired deep learning primitives; however, their utilization in problems of non-trivial size has often proved impossible due to poor computational scalability. This work paves the way for scalable Neural ODEs with time-to-prediction comparable to traditional discrete networks. We introduce hypersolvers, neural networks designed to solve ODEs with low overhead and theoretical guarantees on accuracy. The synergistic combination of hypersolvers and Neural ODEs allows for cheap inference and unlocks a new frontier for practical application of continuous-depth models. Experimental evaluations on standard benchmarks, such as sampling for continuous normalizing flows, reveal consistent pareto efficiency over classical numerical methods.